


https://event.webinarjam.com/go/live/125/5o3plbllaxgu59gr7snol3k

How to Design API, How to develop database schema ,  how to efficiently use design patterns, desigining parking lot,  what is application server, load balancer, 

Nosql vs RDBMS, message vs caching, how facebook is able to handle kernal storage, how amazon prime handles massive video content


objective - skills
update info everyday like name resume description




Spring boot - 

Other end points - 

/auditevents - Audit events for your application 
/beans - List of all beans registered in the spring application context
/mappings - List of all @RequestMapping paths.

there are many more actuator endpoints availabe check spring boot documentation.

By default, only /health is exposed, to exposed all actuator endpoints over HTTP add below wild card property in application.properties file.

#Use wilcard "*" to expose all endpoints.
#Can also expose individual endpoints with a comma-delimited list 
management.endpoints.web.exposure.include =*   // exposing all endppoints using wildcard

 
Scaler notes - 


working knowledge of Angular 
Be passionate about the process

helps u plan your journey 

career advice - what is the blue print to start learning with scaler

take advice on how to use scaler, TA, mentor , how to interact with instructors, How to build relations with the people in the batch 

Take advice from metor on how to manage time, how to manage work and 


Core Java notes - 
 == - checks if elements on both sides of this operator equal or not 

! - not operator - negates what ever the result is.

striver sheets - 646 questions 

120 - 150 days of coding

5 question per day 

DSA LLD and HLD




Questions reading - 

What is a covariant return type in Java? A covariant return type in Java refers to the ability of a subclass method to override a superclass method and return a more specific type than the return type of the overridden method.

can we overirde static methods in java ?  
NO, we can't override static methods since method overriding relies on dynamic binding at runtime, but static methods are bonded at compile time with static binding. As a result, we are unable to override static methods.



---------------------------------------------

TUF array - 

when array is declared in main method then it is populated with garbage values.

and if array is declared in class as instance variable then int array will be populated as 0 (zero). 

we can declare an array of size 10^6 in main method and in class it is of size 10^7. 


follow brute -> Better -> optimal solution approach.

 First ask interviewer about the test cases then soplve question by brute force and then optimize it and again optimize it.






Arrays.sort( object[] or int[] ) - this works for integer. It is uses TimSort internally. TC - nlogn and n2 in worse case. Quicksort is faster than Timsort and it sorts array inplace so its sppace complexity is O(1). 



Q. left Rotate array by K places. 




QlikView - 


Developed dashboards by taking requirements from the clients.

Developed 2 dashboards sinngle handedly. 

solved 6 critical bugs.

added KPI features to the existing dashboards.

foxocon@protonmail.com	
Zlib@123



--------------------------------

sliding window technique questions - 

1️⃣ Maximum Sum Subarray of Size K: Given an array of integers and a positive integer 'k', find the maximum sum of any contiguous subarray of size 'k'.

2️⃣ Longest Substring Without Repeating Characters: Given a string, find the length of the longest substring without repeating characters.

3️⃣ Smallest Subarray with a Given Sum: Given an array of positive integers and a target sum, find the minimum length of a contiguous subarray whose sum is greater than or equal to the target sum.

4️⃣ Fruit Into Baskets: Given an array of integers where each value represents the number of fruits in a tree, you are allowed to pick two different types of fruits. Find the maximum number of fruits you can obtain.

5️⃣ Permutation in a String: Given two strings 's1' and 's2', check if 's2' contains any permutation of 's1'.

6️⃣ Find All Anagrams in a String: Given a string 's' and a non-empty string 'p', find all the start indices of 'p's anagrams in 's'.

7️⃣ Subarray Product Less Than K: Given an array of positive integers and a target integer 'k', find the number of contiguous subarrays whose product is less than 'k'.

8️⃣ Minimum Window Substring: Given two strings 's' and 't', find the minimum window in 's' that contains all the characters from 't' in complexity O(n).

9️⃣ Maximum Length of Repeated Subarray: Given two integer arrays 'nums1' and 'nums2', find the maximum length of a subarray that appears in both arrays.

🔟 Trapping Rain Water: Given an elevation map, representing heights of bars, find the total amount of water that can be trapped.

------------------------------------------

chrome shortcuts - 

ctrl + tab - to switch tabs
ctrl + w to close tab 
ctrl + shift + w - to close current window

windows shortcuts - 

minimize current window - alt + space + n 
maximize current window - alt + space + x 

-----------------

vague - of uncertain, indefenite or unclear character or meaning.

to butt in - (informal ) - To interrupt someone or something. 
ex - He kept on butting in with silly comments.

to throw around - To toss someone or something back and forth.


cohort - a group of people with shared characteristic.

delegate - a person sent or authorized to represent others, in particular an elected representative sent to a conference.


Make sure app does perform the job that it should do. 
then try to apply oo principles and then apply oo paterns and principles and then strive for maintainable, reusable design. 